api-docs-v7.md, before:

---
layout: api
last_modified_at: 2019-09-09
permalink: /api-docs/v7/
title: API documentation v7
pid: api
version: 7
mathjax: true
---

# Documentation  (OpenOCL v7)

This is the documentation of the upcoming version *OpenOCL v7*. If you are looking for the current documentation choose the version on the left.

In *OpenOCL* you can solve a large class of optimal control problems including **non-linear**, **continuous-time**, **multi-stage**, and **constrained** problems, which can appear in the context of **trajectory optimization** and model **predictive control**. The types of dynamical systems that are supported are all systems that can be described by **ordinary differential equations** or **differential algebraic equations**.

We introduced some new concepts that should make it as easy as possible for you to model optimal control problems, in particular the notion of *grid*-costs and *grid*-constraints that can be very handy when implementing **tracking problems**. In the following we give a short introduction to the concepts used and introduced in *OpenOCL*.

## Cost terms and constraints

We support **bounds** that hold along the entire trajectory, and ***grid*-constraints** that hold only at specific gridpoints in the discretized trajectory.

For the cost terms you can specify ***path*-costs** that are integrated along the trajectory (also known as Lagrange term),  and ***grid*-costs** that can be specified for specific points on the discretized trajectory.

## Optimal control problem definition (single-stage)

For optimal control problems with a single stage, *OpenOCL* supports the following type of optimal control problems:
![Single stage optimal control problem](/assets/img/single_stage_problem.PNG)
where $x(t)$ is the state trajectory, $u(t)$ the control trajectory, $z(t)$ the algebraic state trajectory, $p$ the parameters, $l_p(x,z,u,p)$ the path cost function, $l_e(x,p)$ the terminal cost function, $f(x,z,u,p)$ the system dynamics function (differential equation), $g(x,z,u,p)$ the algebraic constraints function. The bounds on the variables are given by $x_\mathrm{0,lb}$, $x_\mathrm{0,ub}$ (initial state), $x_\mathrm{e,lb}$, $x_{e,ub}$ (end state), $x_\mathrm{lb}$, $x_\mathrm{ub}$, $z_\mathrm{lb}$, $z_\mathrm{ub}$, $u_\mathrm{lb}$, $u_\mathrm{ub}$.

If no algebraic states $z$ are defined, the system is described by an *ordinary differential equation*. If algebraic states are defined, then the dynamics function $f(x,z,u,p)$ together with the algebraic constraints function $g(x,z,u,p)$ define the system dynamics as a *differential algebraic equation* in the semi-implicit form. To solve an optimal control problem, the *index* of the differential algebraic equation has to be smaller than or equal to one.

The dimension of the variables are: number of states $n_x$ , number of algebraic states $n_z$, number of controls $n_u$, number of parameters $n_p$.

<!--

## Multi-stage optimal control problems
-->

Commit message:

api docs ocl problem intro

api-docs-v7.md, after:

---
layout: api
last_modified_at: 2019-09-09
permalink: /api-docs/v7/
title: API documentation v7
pid: api
version: 7
mathjax: true
---

# Documentation  (OpenOCL v7)

This is the documentation of the upcoming version *OpenOCL v7*. If you are looking for the current documentation choose the version on the left.

In *OpenOCL* you can solve a large class of optimal control problems including **non-linear**, **continuous-time**, **multi-stage**, and **constrained** problems, which can appear in the context of **trajectory optimization** and model **predictive control**. The types of dynamical systems that are supported are all systems that can be described by **ordinary differential equations** or **differential algebraic equations**.

We introduced some new concepts that should make it as easy as possible for you to model optimal control problems, in particular the notion of *grid*-costs and *grid*-constraints that can be very handy when implementing **tracking problems**. In the following we give a short introduction to the concepts used and introduced in *OpenOCL*.

## Cost terms and constraints

We support **bounds** that hold along the entire trajectory, and ***grid*-constraints** that hold only at specific gridpoints in the discretized trajectory.

For the cost terms you can specify ***path*-costs** that are integrated along the trajectory (also known as Lagrange term),  and ***grid*-costs** that can be specified for specific points on the discretized trajectory.

## Optimal control problem definition (single-stage)

For optimal control problems with a single stage, *OpenOCL* supports the following type of optimal control problems:
![Single stage optimal control problem](/assets/img/single_stage_problem.PNG)
where $x(t)$ is the state trajectory, $u(t)$ the control trajectory, $z(t)$ the algebraic state trajectory, $p$ the parameters, $l_p(x,z,u,p)$ the path cost function, $l_e(x,p)$ the terminal cost function, $f(x,z,u,p)$ the system dynamics function (differential equation), $g(x,z,u,p)$ the algebraic constraints function. The bounds on the variables are given by $x_\mathrm{0,lb}$, $x_\mathrm{0,ub}$ (initial state), $x_\mathrm{e,lb}$, $x_{e,ub}$ (end state), $x_\mathrm{lb}$, $x_\mathrm{ub}$, $z_\mathrm{lb}$, $z_\mathrm{ub}$, $u_\mathrm{lb}$, $u_\mathrm{ub}$.

If no algebraic states $z$ are defined, the system is described by an *ordinary differential equation*. If algebraic states are defined, then the dynamics function $f(x,z,u,p)$ together with the algebraic constraints function $g(x,z,u,p)$ define the system dynamics as a *differential algebraic equation* in the semi-implicit form. To solve an optimal control problem, the *index* of the differential algebraic equation has to be smaller than or equal to one.

The dimension of the variables are: number of states $n_x$ , number of algebraic states $n_z$, number of controls $n_u$, number of parameters $n_p$.

Single stage optimal control problems are implemented using the class [ocl.Problem](#apiocl_problem).

<!--

## Multi-stage optimal control problems
-->
